Metadata-Version: 1.0
Name: clearsilver
Version: 0.10.1
Summary: High performance HTML Template System
Home-page: http://www.clearsilver.net/
Author: Brandon Long
Author-email: blong@fiction.net
License: Apache
Download-URL: http://www.willowmail.com/clearsilver/clearsilver-0.10.1.tar.gz
Description: 
        Clearsilver is a fast, powerful, and language-neutral HTML template system.  It
        was designed through years of commercial web development at eGroups.com and
        Yahoo!. Clearsilver's speed comes from being written as a C module which is
        exported for use in C, C++, Python, Perl, Ruby, and Java.
        
        The goal of Clearsilver is to get nearly all html, strings, and presentation
        logic out of your code. By drastically reducing code size in your application,
        readability and maintainability are improved. Furthermore, it becomes easier to
        make UI changes without introducing bugs. Clearsilver unifies working with
        cookies, form data, and the http environment, by making it trivial to access
        them from either your code or templates in a standard fashion. It also makes it
        very easy to skin the application, or allow end user UI customization.
        
        As a bonus, tools designed to work in concert with clearsilver are also
        available, including an object to relational database mapping tool, odb.py, and
        a transparent internationalization system, trans.py.
        
        Enjoy!
        
Keywords: html templates
Platform: UNKNOWN
Classifier: Development Status :: 5 - Production/Stable
Classifier: Environment :: Web Environment
Classifier: Intended Audience :: Developers
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: Apache Software License
Classifier: Operating System :: Microsoft :: Windows :: Windows NT/2000
Classifier: Operating System :: POSIX :: BSD
Classifier: Operating System :: POSIX :: Linux
Classifier: Programming Language :: C
Classifier: Topic :: Internet :: WWW/HTTP :: Dynamic Content :: CGI Tools/Libraries
Classifier: Topic :: Software Development :: Localization
Classifier: Topic :: Text Processing :: Markup :: HTML
