A. What is this?
-------------------

Jubatu is a XMPP-based gaming client intended to play turn-based games. These
games are loaded as plugins by the core application. The file you are reading
is part of the distribution for Jubatu's core.

Bear in mind that Jubatu doesn't implement any kind of artificial intelligence;
it is intended to act as a computer client for matchs between human players. At
most, you can expect that game plugins will check movements, rules and so (but
not neccesarily it will be so).


B. Installation guide
-------------------------

1. Install the required libraries: wxpython, pyxmpp and panda3d.

If you are the happy user of a OS having a good open source software catalog
(as many Linux distros) you should check if you can simply choose these libraries
from the catalog. In case you can't, here you have instructions for manual
installation:

1.1 panda3d
    Grab Panda3d from http://panda3d.org/download.php
and install it. Note than Panda3d, as of the current version, includes his
own python distribution inside. Windows users should pay attention to installing
the remaining libraries under the Panda3d's python distribution.

1.2 wxpython
    Grab wxpython from http://www.wxpython.org/download.php
and install it. If you are going to install it under Panda3d's python distribution,
and you grab a self-installing binary for wxpython, make sure you choose the good version
(as of Jan'08, Panda3d comes with a 2.4 version).

1.3 pyxmpp
    This can be the trickiest one, due to the dependencies of the package:
    
    1.3.1 iconv
        Grab it from http://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/#downloading  (source code)
    or from the Igor Zlatkovic's site http://www.zlatkovic.com/libxml.en.html  (Windows binaries)
    
    1.3.2 libxml2
        Grab it from http://xmlsoft.org/downloads.html  or from the Igor Zlatkovic's
    site above (Windows binaries).
    
    1.3.3 dnspython
        Grab it from http://www.dnspython.org/
        
    1.3.4 pyxmpp
        Finally, you can get and install pyxmpp itself: http://pyxmpp.jajcus.net/

2. Install Jubatu

    If you have got a binary distribution, simply execute and install it (as always, Windows
users should install under the Panda3d's python distribution). If you have got a source code
distribution, decompress it in a folder and install as a typical distutils distribution, that is:
Open a console, go to the directory where you have decompressed the package, and execute the command:

    python setup.py install

3. Install game modules for Jubatu

    In case you have got distribution binaries, just execute them. In other case, you should have
a compressed file with the game, so you should decompress it in one of this two locations:

    1) Under the 'games' subdirectory of the main Jubatu directory (the directory containing the
jubatu.py file). If you do so, the game will be useable system-wide, so other users in your local
computer will be able to play it too. (Depending on your system configuration, you could need
administrator's privileges to do this.)
    2) Under the 'games' subdirectory of the user's Jubatu directory (this is a directory named '.jubatu'
that will be available in the directory used by your operating system to store user's preferences;
normally this will be '/home/USERNAME/' in Linux and 'C:/Documents and Settings/USERNAME' in Windows).
Be warned that if you take this path, other users in your local computer won't have access to it.
