                           ABOUT PY-GTKTREE

Py-gtktree is a package that brings PyGTK tree models closer to
harmony with OOP and Python.  Currently it includes custom Pythonic
implementations of gtk.TreeModel interface and several utility
functions that simplify common tasks with gtk.TreeView.



                        RUNNING STANDARD TESTS

Py-gtktree comes with many tests, though test coverage is not adequate
as of now.  To encourage using the tests, a simple tool to run them is
included in the top directory of the package.  Just execute

        ./run-test.py

in this directory.  All tests must pass at least in released versions.
If they don't, it's a bug.  Please report any such bugs (instructions
below).



                             INSTALLATION

The usual './setup.py build; ./setup.py install' or just './setup.py
install' should build and install Py-gtktree.  See file INSTALL for
details.



                            REPORTING BUGS

Please use bug tracker at the Launchpad project page for bug
submissions.  Point your browser to

                https://bugs.launchpad.net/py-gtktree

Before submitting a bug, please update to the latest Bazaar version of
Py-gtktree (in the branch you found the bug in, e.g. the trunk) and
verify that the bug is still present.  Don't forget to check if the
bug has been submitted already.

Please include the following information in your bug report:

* Bug description and the way to reproduce the bug.

* Exception stack trace, if any.

* System information, most importantly Python and PyGTK versions.

* Test case if possible.  If a standard test fails (one of those in
  the 'test' directory), its name in stack trace will suffice.

* Everything else you find relevant.



                      FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

It is preferred to ask question about Py-gtktree and using it in your
code at its Launchpad page in the corresponding section:

               https://answers.launchpad.net/py-gtktree

There you can also check if the particular question you have was
already brought up by someone else.

Alternatively, you can ask doublep (Paul Pogonyshev) on IRC channel
irc.gnome.org#pygtk.  However, please check the page mentioned above
first.



                       COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES

All files are copyrighted by Paul Pogonyshev except as noted below.
See each specific file for details.

All source files are licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public
License version 3 or (at your option) any later version.  GNU LGPL
version 3 can be found in the file COPYING.LESSER.  It is an extension
to GNU GPL version 3 which can be found in the file COPYING.

* File 'setup.py' is explicitly put in Public Domain.

* Documentation in file 'docs/py-gtktree.txt' is distributed under a
  simple permissive license (see file for the exact license text).
