Metadata-Version: 1.0
Name: py2app
Version: 0.3.2
Summary: distutils command for creating Mac OS X applications
Home-page: http://undefined.org/python/#py2app
Author: Bob Ippolito
Author-email: bob@redivi.com
License: MIT or PSF License
Download-URL: http://undefined.org/python/#py2app
Description: py2app is a suite of distutils extensions for Python
        development on the Mac.  The additional distutils
        commands (when imported) are as follows:
        
        py2app:
        
        Converts python scripts into executable Mac OS X
        applications, able to run without requiring an
        existing python installation. This is a
        replacement for bundlebuilder.
        
        bdist_mpkg:
        
        Extensible Mac OS X installer package creation
        command.  By default it creates a self-contained
        metapackage that separates your package's
        components by install scheme (platlib, scripts,
        headers, etc.).  It can be subclassed to provide
        additional subpackages such as dependencies,
        example code, documentation, applications, Xcode
        templates, etc.
        
        The following pieces of the py2app suite may also be
        of general interest:
        
        py2app.modulegraph:
        
        Cross-platform extremely flexible replacement for
        modulefinder that uses a graph data structure to
        track dependencies.
        
        altgraph:
        
        General purpose graph library, forked from graphlib.
        
        macholib:
        
        Mach-O header tool suite.  Can be used to analyze and
        rewrite dependencies or symbols in Mach-O headers.
        Primarily used as a replacement for otool
        and install_name_tool.
        
Platform: MacOS X
Classifier: Development Status :: 4 - Beta
Classifier: Environment :: Console
Classifier: Environment :: MacOS X :: Cocoa
Classifier: Intended Audience :: Developers
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: MIT License
Classifier: Natural Language :: English
Classifier: Operating System :: MacOS :: MacOS X
Classifier: Programming Language :: Python
Classifier: Programming Language :: Objective C
Classifier: Topic :: Software Development :: Libraries :: Python Modules
Classifier: Topic :: Software Development :: User Interfaces
Classifier: Topic :: Software Development :: Build Tools
