Installation Notes for Toolserver Framework for Python
-------------------------------------------------------

Since version 0.4 it is tested and developed with Python 2.6 as base version.
The old versions of TooFPy worked with Python 2.2, but really, that's far
too old to be relevant anymore. There still is TooFPy 0.3.6 available that
should still work as far back as python 2.2. But installation now is based
on a standard python 2.6 with enabled threading.

SOAPpy 0.12 has serious bugs in the handling of hierarchic complex datatypes
(like for example lists of dictionaries or dictionaries of dictionaries)#
and it doesn't look like it gets any upstream love, so if you want SOAP
to work, stick to the newest SOAPpy 0.11 you can get.

If you are upgrading, read UPDATE-FROM-SOURCE, too.

create a virtual environment if you want to prevent clashes with your
system environment using the great virtualenv tool, or just install
packages into your main python repository.

To get virtualenv:

sudo easy_install virtualenv

then follow the virtualenv documentation to create a virtual environment and
activate it:

virtualenv ~/PythonPlay
. ~/PythonPlay/bin/activate
cd ~/PythonPlay

While you at it, grab pip, too, as it is much nicer to use than easy_install
in my opinion (for example uninstall is much easier):

easy_install pip

Install the old version of SOAPpy:

grab the latest 0.11 (0.11.6 at the moment of my writing) from:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywebsvcs/files/

and do the standard setup.py installation twist. CAVEAT: you have to patch
some python file if you want to compile with python 2.6, as from __future__
imports now have to be at the start of the file (SOAPpy is quite outdated,
technically). Just pay attention to the error messages and move the
offending line up to the start of the file, right below the leading docstring.

Now install the toolserver (this will pull in medusa, too):

pip install toolserver

If you want to be able to use RSA authentication, fetch this package:

pip install pycrypto

If you want to use WSGI compliant applications, just pull down and install
the following package:

pip install wsgiref

After this you can start the server with the following command:

tsctl start

And you can stop the server with the following command:

tsctl stop

General note: all data for a running instance of Toolserver are kept in the
.Toolserver subdirectory of the users $HOME. So multiple instances of
Toolserver can be running on the same machine.

There might one day be a simple one-click installer, but for now the above
installation notes should be sufficient. This system is actually targeted to
hackers, and those know what they do (or should know at least).

