Metadata-Version: 1.0
Name: pyCLiFF
Version: 0.1
Summary: pyCLiFF, the Python Command Line Filter Framework is a simple tool designed to remove the boilerplate and annoyances from command line filters.
Home-page: http://github.com/sophacles/pyCLiFF/tree/master
Author: Erich Heine
Author-email: sophacles@gmail.com
License: UNKNOWN
Description: 
        pyCLiFF, the Python Command Line Filter Framework is a simple tool designed
        to remove the boilerplate and annoyances from command line filters.
        
        In *nix there is a tradition of using pipes to connact many programs together
        when processing data. The programs are usually very single transformations on
        text.  This text may come in from a file or from stdin, and leave via file or
        stdout. This pattern is ubiquitous in *nix programming, allowing for very
        powerful command line usage.   Such tools frequently (mostly?) follow the this
        pattern:
        
        1. Setup/handle arguments
        2. Mainloop:
        A. Read line from input file (stdin or file)
        B. Process that line in some way
        C. Output the result of processing.
        3. Cleanup and exit.
        
        The above pattern results in many programs with a large portion of boilerplate
        code, and a few dozen lines of unique application code. pyCLiFF is an attempt
        to cover all the parts of a command line filter that are not unique. (Usually
        this means step B above).
        
Platform: UNKNOWN
Classifier: Development Status :: 3 - Alpha
Classifier: Environment :: Console
Classifier: Intended Audience :: Developers
Classifier: Intended Audience :: System Administrators
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: MIT License
Classifier: Operating System :: MacOS :: MacOS X
Classifier: Operating System :: POSIX
Classifier: Operating System :: Unix
Classifier: Programming Language :: Python :: 2
Classifier: Topic :: Other/Nonlisted Topic
Classifier: Topic :: Software Development :: Libraries
Classifier: Topic :: System :: Shells
Classifier: Topic :: System :: System Shells
Classifier: Topic :: Terminals
Classifier: Topic :: Text Processing :: Filters
Classifier: Topic :: Utilities
